feat: adding scopedenforcementactions (#3321)
open-policy-agent/gatekeeper: website/docs/enforcement-points.md

---
id: enforcement-points
title: Enforcement points in Gatekeeper
---

## Understanding Enforcement Points

An enforcement point defines the location where enforcement happens. Below are the different enforcement points available in Gatekeeper:

- `validation.gatekeeper.sh` indicates that enforcement should be carried out by Gatekeeper's validating webhook for a constraint. Supports templates with CEL and Rego.
- `gator.gatekeeper.sh` indicates that enforcement should be carried out in shift-left via [gator-cli](gator.md) for a constraint. Supports templates with CEL and Rego.
- `audit.gatekeeper.sh` indicates that on-cluster resources should be audited and violations should be reported for the resources that are in violation of constraint. Supports templates with CEL and Rego.
- `vap.k8s.io` indicates that enforcement should be carried out by Validating Admission Policy for a constraint. Supports templates with CEL.

### How to use different enforcement points in constraint

> By default, a constraint will be enforced at all enforcement points with common enforcement action defined in `spec.enforcementAction`. However, you can chose to enforce a constraint at specific enforcement points different actions using `spec.scopedEnforcementActions`. Below are the different examples and use cases that utilizes different enforcement actions for different enforcement points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a constraint will be enforced at all enforcement points with common enforcement action defined in `spec.enforcementAction`. However, you can choose to enforce a constraint at specific enforcement points with different actions using `enforcementAction: scoped` and `spec.scopedEnforcementActions`. Below are examples and use cases that utilize different enforcement actions for different enforcement points.
```

:::note
`spec.enforcementAction: scoped` is needed to customize specific enforcement point/enforcement action behavior. If `spec.enforcementAction: scoped` is not provided, `spec.scopedEnforcementActions` is ignored and defined `enforcementAction` will be enforced at all enforcement points.
:::

###### Deny in shift-left and warn at admission

> You are trying out a new constraint template, and you want deny violating resources in shift-left testing, but do not want to block any resources when admitted to cluster to avoid faulty rejects. You may want to use `deny` action for `gator.gatekeeper.sh` enforcement point and `warn` for `validation.gatekeepet.sh`. The below constraint satisfies this use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are trying out a new constraint template, and you want to deny violating resources in shift-left testing, but do not want to block any resources admitted to clusters to reduce impact for faulty rejections. You may want to use `deny` action for the `gator.gatekeeper.sh` shift-left enforcement point and `warn` for `the validation.gatekeepet.sh` admission webhook enforcement point. The below constraint satisfies this use case.
```

Reviewer: Add a note for:
> The audit enforcement point is not included unless explicitly added to scopedEnforcementActions.enforcementPoints or if scopedEnforcementActions.enforcementPoints is set to "*"
